1. What is a software process model and why is it important in software development?
 ans. They are convenient tool used by developers to plan every step of their projects.
 These models help project managers plan their process, estimate costs, identify challenges and communicate
 with teams and customers.

2.
Compare and contrast the Waterfall and Agile software process models.
ans.
Waterfall Model
The waterfall model is the classic model or oldest model and is known as mother of all the model.
It is widely used in government projects and many vital projects in company.
The waterfall model is also called as 'Linear sequential model' or 'Classic life cycle model'.
In this model, each phase is executed completely before the beginning of the next phase. Hence the phases do not overlap in waterfall model.
This model is used for small projects.
In this model, feedback is taken after each phase to ensure that the project is on the right path.
Testing part starts only after the development is completed.

Agile Model
Agile model is a combination of incremental and iterative process models.
This model focuses on the users satisfaction which can be achieved with quick delivery of the working software product.
Agile model breaks the product into individual iterations.
Every iteration includes cross functional teams working on different areas such as planning, requirements, analysis, design, coding, unit testing and acceptance testing.
At the end of an iteration working product shows to the users.


What are the key differences between the two models and
ans.
1.Waterfall Model All the requirements are known at the beginning of the project, hence it is easy to manage
whiles in Agile model It is totally depends on customer interaction,if the customer is not clear with their requirements,the development team can go in the wrong direction.

2.
 Waterfall breaks down software development into isolated phases that flow into each other
 while Agile advocates iterative development cycles in which multiple lifecycle phases can run in parallel.


what are the benefits and drawbacks of each?

Waterfall Model:
Benefits:
1.In this model, each phase is executed completely before the beginning of the next phase. Hence the phases do not overlap in waterfall model.
2.This model is used for small projects.
3. Feedback is taken after each phase to ensure that the project is on the right path.
4. Testing part starts only after the development is completed.

Drawback:
1.Waterfall model is not good for complex and object oriented projects.
2.Changes are not permitted so it is not fit for moderate to high risk changes in project.
3. It is a poor model for long duration projects.
4. The problems with Waterfall model are uncovered, until the software testing.
5. The amount of risk is high.

Agile Model:
Benefits;
1.Customers are satisfied because of quick and continuous delivery of useful software.
2.Regular delivery of working software.
3.Face to face interaction between the customers, developers and testers and it is best form of communication.
4.Even the late changes in the requirement can be incorporated in the software.

Drawbacks:
1.It is totally depends on customer interaction that is if the customer is not clear with their requirements, the development team can go in the wrong direction.
2. Documentation is less, so the transfer of technology to the new team members is challenging.
